(upbeat music)
- So what were we talking about before episode 32?
- Wow.
- Talking about modules and analog synth voices.
- Yeah.
- Wait, we're up to 32.
- We're up to 32.
- Holy shit.
- Yep.
- Nah, that seems like a lot.
- People have listened to 32 episodes of our bullshit.
- That's like a whole day plus, of listening to us.
And on stop us.
- It's a lot.
- That's too much of us.
- Way too much.
- Or is it just not enough?
- It'll be the case.
- We gotta give people more.
- People in the future do like twin peaks
and do marathons of listening to us.
- Oh God.
Wow.
- The face is all happening.
(laughing)
- If someone does, I wanna know about it.
- Yeah.
- I wanna hear from this person like,
hey, I was on an international flight to Australia.
I just listened to your guys' podcast the entire time.
I'm like, damn.
I wanna know about that.
- So if anybody's gone full dumpster so far, let us know.
- I mean, maybe they have, but there's like,
they just snapped at the end.
Like there was no way for them to communicate this task
that they had done.
They had finished because they just ran into the woods naked
and never to be seen from a guy.
- Why won't they make the Octra Trap?
They should have made!
(laughing)
- Why won't they just re-release
the fucking machine drum already?
(laughing)
- God, I can't handle this.
- Oh.
(laughing)
- Goddamn.
- Speaking of electrons.
- Electrons.
- The electron corner has some activity this episode.
- That's true.
- We both received electron machines, one old, one new.
- Yeah.
- Well.
- Something borrowed, something blue.
- Yeah.
- Your hair is blue.
- Truly shit.
- It's all come together.
- It is.
We just haven't borrowed it.
- I don't know what it is, but it's come together.
- It is, I feel it.
- It's like the DaVinci Code.
- This is the Lost Anne Brown short story.
- Before we dip in an electron,
we forgot to mention over the last two episodes.
We're on YouTube now.
- We are, we are, yeah.
- People should be aware, I feel.
We've painstakingly uploaded our entire back catalog
to the tubes.
Added some amazing visuals from DaVinci.
- Whoa, last name.
- Oh shit.
- From DaVinci.
(laughing)
- Appreciate that.
- That's a great sound.
- Yeah.
To go along with it.
So you don't have to look at us.
- I should make some new video for that.
I feel like we've used that one enough.
- We've tapped them.
- Yeah, let me.
- I'm dry now for 32 episodes.
- I'm gonna make a note to make some new videos.
So listeners, by all means go get caught up.
Watch those videos.
Smash that subscribe button.
- Smash that fucking subscribe button.
Get us some numbers.
We need some clout.
- Leave comments.
- We can get free metropolis's.
- Free metropolis, tell us things that we said
that were not true.
It's all good.
- Yeah.
- Wait, did we get, we got a comment.
- We need that ad, right?
Yes, you did.
- And it was something.
- And someone did correct that.
- Well, I got his name here.
I told him, on our last episode,
a user named bestman3n commented
that you're fucking wrong, Dave.
He didn't say that, but he said it nicely.
- You said you could feel that's new.
- He said you actually can rotate the steps
of the Mascua using, or the first step, I should say.
- Yes, yes.
- Using CV input on the expander.
- Which would, and thank you to this user
'cause I went back and I was like,
yeah, that's exactly what that input allows you to do.
Sort of moving that first step around,
the whole thing spins around.
It's exactly what you asked.
And so here's a question.
I was wrong.
Does that mean I lied?
- It means you must be punished now.
- Okay, fair enough.
- I'd point.
- You have to put your nose in the corner
for the rest of the episode.
- Oh, okay.
I guess I'll be back.
Let me know when I'm done.
(laughing)
- Let me know when I can come back.
I do appreciate that feedbacks.
And I'm sure I will be wrong again.
In this episode probably, I'm usually wrong in some way.
- I usually am.
Smash that subscribe button
and tell us how we're wrong.
- Yeah.
- We love to hear it.
- Maybe we'll send you a drink?
- Coozy.
- Free Coozy.
- Actually, yeah, we should send them a drink Coozy.
I still have like one or two left.
- Yeah, I have a few as well.
So yeah, best man three in.
If you want a drink Coozy, hit us up.
- Yeah, you're gonna hit us up though.
- You're gonna give us the adi.
We're not gonna come to you.
- Yeah.
- We're not gonna hunt you down.
- That works.
- We should get some stickers made too.
We talked about this like, it's like every three months.
- Yeah.
- We should get stickers and t-shirts made.
- And then it gets nowhere.
- True.
- This is the motivation because we go to send this user,
this YouTube user, like a care package.
And it can't just be a Coozy.
It has to be more than that.
- You give me the art for the latest ones and all.
I'll do the thing.
- Excellent.
- Yeah.
I mean, I could just hit reorder on the stickers
we made for Nopcon.
- Yeah, as I was gonna say, actually.
- I think Nopcon is usually our deadline.
Like, oh shit, we gotta get this done by Nopcon.
- Right, right.
- But there hasn't been a Nopcon for two years now.
Well, there's one coming up.
- There is one coming up, but we're not going.
- Yeah.
- At first I feel like probably,
probably shouldn't happen.
- Yeah, I'll have a break.
- You know, I see a lot of other conventions canceling.
It doesn't seem like anyone from out of country
can even come at this point.
- People are just so close.
- Nails just canceled that tour.
- Trend resonant, he was saying, nope.
Gonna try to keep people safe.
- Yeah.
- I'm on a suit and tie guy.
- Except that it can't happen yet.
- Shelve your ideas, save them all up.
We'll have a big crazy one in 2022.
- Yeah, 2022, we're gonna come out just absolutely hard.
- No, because Nopcon revival could be nuts.
- And like, it is clothing optional.
It is like full on like, we've been pent up,
haven't had this in a while.
It's just gonna be, yeah.
- Nerds in the nude, yep.
- Nerds out the cage.
That's the theme.
- Who's the one for like October Fast or something?
What the fuck was it before?
There was that banner that had like nothing to do
with the rest of the fucking cause.
- September.
Fast.
- Yeah, I don't remember.
- I can't remember.
- I don't remember.
- As it usually is.
- I was wondering, it was like Indiana Jones themed.
I thought that was like.
- Yeah.
- That was one of the first couple.
- I don't, I actually don't remember
they have themes until we go.
- We can just make them up.
- Yeah.
- Raiders of the Lost Arb.
- That was an album.
The Lost Arb.
- How was it?
- Yeah.
- I thought there was one.
Yeah, we should just make up our own.
- Temples of.
- Was it no October Fast?
- Oh, maybe it was no October Fast.
- No, it's.
- It's what, okay.
(laughing)
- Temple of drone.
- Temple of.
- I mean, the world we're trying to replace is dope.
- Yeah.
- Which is already pretty good already.
- Right, right.
- But like accurately describes not so.
- Yeah.
- You should do that it do.
So what were we talking about?
- I don't know, but it wouldn't be an episode
if we didn't shit talk knob com.
- Yeah.
- So we got that out of the way.
- And it's so close.
- Free to proceed from here.
- Yeah.
- While we were about to shit talk electron.
- So everything's signed up.
- Oh yeah.
- We're in the groove now.
- Like expanded the scope of electron corner.
It's like the full room or half a room.
What's it like the,
oh, what's it called?
Like the breakfast nook.
It's taking, it's more like the electron breakfast nook
at this point.
- Just makes me want to go to knob con
and hang out at the electron booth.
- Why don't you put the machine drum back out?
- When is there gonna be a mono machine mark two, bro?
- Come on.
- I ask you this every year,
you never give me an answer.
- Get your probability in.
- It's like the two lines of C.
- Oh God.
- I can't even imagine running one of those booths,
especially one of the electron one
where everyone's gonna stop and hit it up.
- Oh yeah, I'd run one with a taser.
That's for sure.
- You like listen, come with focused questions
and you get put the fuck down.
- Right.
Or like a whip.
Like a, I mean going back to like the Indiana Jones theme,
like a whip.
Like if you, like I will chase you out of this booth.
- Yeah, you need the whip.
The taser's gonna run out of juice.
- Yeah, rhythm mark two, it's black, it makes drum sounds.
- Is it black?
- I thought.
- Yeah.
- Okay. - It is.
- So I remember seeing the mark two
come on weren't they gray or?
- They were.
- They were all gray.
- They changed it.
- Yeah.
- Now they don't do the gray anymore, just black.
- Good.
- Which I like.
- The gray was ugly.
- Oh yeah, it looks bad.
Doesn't look good.
- Was the sound engine improved like the digit act?
- I think it sounds better.
They say it's the same internals.
I think there's more bass definition
just like the digit act.
It sounds very clean, even the reverb
so like much cleaner than the one that I have.
So it's definitely different in a good way.
The fucking, I don't know why they swapped
the function of the track buttons.
And I thought I was gonna be able to get over it,
but hey, I'm gonna keep my mark one.
So they're always both gonna be different
and it's completely fucking with me.
To the point where I'm gonna ask them
just to put an option in.
So can you just put it in the operating system
like swap these behind the scenes
and know just like, 'cause I don't look at the label,
I just need to know the tracks at the fucking top.
It's not, it's fucking with me.
'Cause I can't get used to it
'cause I keep amusing both machines all the time.
So that's kind of fucking annoying.
I don't know why they did that.
It makes no sense to me.
They did redo the buttons up at the top
and they added more so you can get to like
the ways you like edit certain things more easily.
- The track selection has always annoyed me
about the rhythm in the first,
but in fact I was just talking to you about that
the other day Dave, you made fun of me
'cause it's literally just a two button combo,
but it still was annoying.
- Oh yeah, yeah.
Playing with the machine drum again reminds me
of how much faster it is on there.
- Yeah.
- To defer that to the,
- It changed it. - I mean, now it gets the rhythm.
- Yeah. - It changed it
on the rhythm changes.
- Change it yet again. - When you just hit the pad,
it selects the track, which is fine, but that's not what--
- Cool, that's what I always wanted.
- I'm used to that button combo, I can do that.
- Oh really?
- It's just, it's in me.
- I hate that.
- I absolutely hate it though.
- And they fucked with it.
It's something that I know very well.
And it's kind of fucking with me.
- Yeah, I don't know why they switched it.
It's like a trolling a certain group of people.
I would have preferred it that way personally.
- Right.
- Well, no, I can see the selection, I get that.
Now I'm getting used to that.
So maybe I won't need to fuck with the combo anymore,
but it's just like, I don't wanna have to relearn that.
It's like, they put the whammy bar
on the other side of the fucking guitar.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- I've been using, yeah, it's a weird analogy.
Still fits in my Pelican case, which is nice.
I thought it wouldn't.
It'll just barely fit in the 1500 that I had the Mark 1 in.
I thought I was gonna have to buy some new stupid thing.
- Nice.
- Quick performance is what fucking makes it.
That knob, like the fact that you can assign
a bunch of the performance pads to that knob
and then just turn those and like do that in real time.
And so like, so makes it, I can transition completely
differently on there and do different stuff.
It opens up like playing it a lot.
That was worth it alone.
But something like, they added this update to transfer,
the app that lets you back shit up.
So you can finally back up the samples
and your whole kit and the patterns now and that's great.
But I can't get the samples in the right order
on my Mark 1 and the way they should be on the Mark 2.
So I have to go in and like fix every fucking kit
and redesign the samples.
I don't know.
They won't answer my post on the forum about it.
I have no idea.
Maybe it's 'cause when I try to do a backup.
- Stella, let's try on support continually.
- Oh yeah, so good.
When I try to do a backup of the Mark 1
of the samples, it was like, oh,
all of these samples are corrupt.
Even though it's crazy fine.
- I'm gonna be doing it.
- So I couldn't really get around that, but I had a backup.
So cool, I've had all these samples for years now.
I haven't really changed them much,
but I have to manually fix them.
And so it's just like, I let the Mark 1
play back the patterns as they should be
and I'm just using the Mark 2 to make new shit now.
Which is probably better anyway.
But they claim like, oh, now zip up a project
and send it to your friend.
And it's like, that's all I'm trying to do.
The friend being me.
And I can't get it to my friend.
(laughing)
And they won't answer the thing.
So I'm just kind of like, eh,
I'm just gonna enjoy this thing.
'Cause it does work.
Like there's no other like issue with it.
Pads are way fucking nicer.
It makes it easier to enter like sequences
and chromatic stuff.
I don't necessarily use it.
Like it's not like better for NPC drumming.
It's more just easier to record sequences
and shit like that.
- They're so stiff on the Mark 1.
- So bad.
- Like trying to use the performance pads
to, you know, I don't know for it.
It's like very difficult.
- To do.
- 'Cause the most stiff they were.
But.
- It took me a couple of days to break these in.
'Cause at first they wouldn't select quite that well.
- But now it's perfect.
It seems really good.
- You didn't have either of them.
You were starting from scratch or only got one.
The Mark 2 would be where you would go?
- Okay.
- Well, if you don't factor in price,
you can still get the Mark 1 for like 700 bucks on a reverb.
Which to me is like crazy deal.
That does sound like a good deal.
- That's fucking, that's still the most ridiculous
drum machine out there.
The Mark 2 just solidifies it.
The sampling is awesome.
It made me, I was kind of wanting a digitact
even though like your experience really put me off of it.
Especially with the updates,
but this has really killed that lust for me.
Even though I hope they had a second LFO to the rhythm.
That would be tight.
- Yeah, I'm psyched on it.
It's a good improvement.
I'm used to everything else.
- There's still only one LFO.
- Wow.
- Yeah.
- Interesting.
- I don't know why all the things like
putting another one in there goes a long way.
- Especially because that's like the digital area
of that device.
So like, I don't know.
- You think?
- Not like you're stealing from the analog voices
or anything, I don't think.
- That's what I would think too.
- Sounds fantastic though.
I've been digging, just sitting on the couch with it,
making new patterns and shit
when I don't feel like going upstairs.
- So.
- Nice.
- Yeah, no regrets.
- That's a generally positive thing
from the electron corner right now.
- Yeah.
Fuck yeah.
- Yeah, I'm totally enjoying it.
Especially for that quick perf,
the better pads and just the extra buttons
that they've added and some niceties.
It's like they didn't fix a lot.
That was kind of fucked up with it.
I don't know why they swapped those two buttons
but whatever.
It's a head fuck.
- Yeah.
- I mean, maybe they did it with the intent
of fucking with your head
and if that was the case, Bravo.
It's a good thing. - They did it.
- And nailed the landing.
- You fucking did.
- Your head is fucked.
Speaking of head fucker Greg.
- Yeah.
- You also have a contribution to the electron corner.
- I do.
I have to do a little bit of back story though.
Start it out with the LXR.
- True.
- Can you do this in like a narrator voice?
Like the start of a movie like exposition?
- Like a acquisition blade runner?
- Yes, yes.
(laughing)
I don't know what your narrator voice is.
We've heard your God voice.
- Maybe we could just have him speak regularly
and then find an AI that can turn it into
like deep fake and narrator voice.
- Yeah.
- So now we're gonna be deep fake.
- Yeah, like James Earl Jones or like a...
- Oh God.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- Simba, when will they release the model machine mark two?
- Oh shit.
- Oh, we don't need to find anything.
You can just do it.
So finish your exposition in your James Earl Jones.
We'll wait.
- I can't.
It would be disrespectful to Dorotheter
for me to try and make that voice.
- Oh, okay.
- So go on with your exposition, my exposition.
I wanted the Alex R2, mark two.
After we discussed it in our last episode,
I was like, you know what?
Yeah, I think I'm gonna make the jump.
I think I had it on pre-order actually in the last episode
and then it just didn't arrive yet,
but yeah, it finally arrived.
I was a little disappointed with it.
So, first thing I noticed right off the bat
which kind of tilted me a little,
it was very minor, but annoyed me.
The encoders were moving on their own.
If I adjusted a knob for a specific value every once in a while,
the value would jump up by one number
for something that I wasn't touching the knob for.
Like say I was adjusting the course tuning.
- Yeah.
- I would see like, you know,
like the, say like the bit rate value or something
and adjust on a different value.
I didn't commit the memory which values I saw changing
on their own, but I definitely kept seeing things jump up
by like a single digit.
- So what's your intuition?
Do you think it was hardware related or a software glitch?
Have you heard of anyone else having this problem?
- Didn't really look into it.
It annoyed me.
My, oh God, that sounds, that would be maddening.
- And I didn't remember that ever happening on the Mark I.
- Yeah.
- So I was like, okay.
- Yeah, never had that.
- Also notice some of the global effects
didn't seem to be working properly.
Such as like the compressor and things like that.
Some of them just didn't seem to be doing anything.
I was like, what the hell?
I don't know what that was all about.
Aside from that, everything was seemingly okay.
You know, it was functioning like the Mark I
same old familiar territory.
And I was like, okay, this is cool.
It had a cool sound.
I liked the, you know, the FM drums,
but I forgot that you can't change them.
Like if I wanted, like, you know what I mean?
Like they're hard set what each drum is
unless you're using like the wave shape.
- Oh, yeah.
- And that kind of annoyed me.
Like sometimes I just want a bank of kick drums.
- Oh, that's what you were saying.
- Yeah, and like you can't really do that on air.
You can do that on the TR8S
and I remembered that you can do that on the machine drum.
And I was like, you know what?
Everything that I was kind of like wanting
out of a drum machine just kept pointing me back
to the machine drum.
And I was like, okay, I just spent $600 on this LXR.
It's not quite what I want.
Do I really want to jump to double that price
to get an old machine drum?
And like I spent some time debating it
and eventually I came to the conclusion that yes,
yes I do.
So I returned the LXR.
- That would be so weird if the answer was no.
- Yeah, and that's where the story ended.
You're like, no, I didn't get one.
- No, but I did.
Yeah, so I returned the LXR.
I feel like there isn't enough reason
to get a Mark II right now.
- Yeah.
- I feel like maybe if they add any more substantial
improvements over the Mark I, then go for it.
But like the lack of the triggers, you know,
and the CV triggers and the micro timing
on the sequencing and things like that,
it's actually like a step down.
- Yes, the sliders are nice.
That's about it.
Other than that, I think it'd be better off
getting a Mark I for very cheap right now.
They're selling for like $400.
- Oh, really?
- Yeah, because the Mark IIs came out.
So yeah, they've dipped down in price.
- Oh, I didn't see that.
- I saw a couple going used on like reverb
and muffs for around 400 bucks.
And I was like, that's a good fucking deal.
- Yeah, they were seven for a while.
- Yeah.
So yeah, I would say Mark II LXR, not worth it right now.
However, a machine drum, still worth every penny.
The prices have gone up steeply.
Oh, I got mine for a few hundred dollars less
than what they are currently going on for reverb that I see.
'Cause I got one off of muffs and the dude was really cool
and willing to give a fair price
instead of trying to compete
with the super fucking inflated prices of reverb right now.
So I don't know if he wants me to say his name
or anything, so I won't call him out,
but yeah, two thumbs up to him for giving a fair deal.
And so far I'm loving the machine drum.
I installed the new unofficial firmware, the X.04.
- So what is that, what is that ad?
- It adds a few things.
Someone wish I haven't really dipped into yet at all.
It adds a couple, I put it in my notes here.
A new spin on the GND machines are available.
Like you got GND SN Pro,
which is four sign oscillators.
You got the SW saw-thoose triangle
with three variable waveform oscillators,
GND PU, which is a pulse wave machine,
adjustable ratio and up to three oscillators as well.
All of these GND machines have relative pitches
for the additional oscillators and unison.
- Ooh. - It's capability.
- And yeah, I was having a lot of fun
just playing around with those
and the new tweaks for them.
On top of that, many of the currently existing machines
gained a new tuning option for relative pitch.
I haven't really played with that too much,
but yeah, it implements like quarter tone
equal tempered scaling of the pitch parameter.
- Yeah, whereas before it was just zero to 128 or whatever.
- Right, and you had to like play it like a year.
- Yeah, now it's a little more musical, which is cool.
I've never used my, in the past,
I've never used the machine drum as a synth,
but you kind of can now.
This allows you to dip in a little bit of territory
that reminded me of the Mono machine a bit.
And just from my past experience with the Mono machine,
I was kind of fucking with the FM machines a little
and trying to dial in some Mono machine like stuff.
But it's cool, I think it kind of helps it compete
a little with the rhythm
and that you can use it as a synth,
which was really fun to do on the rhythm when I totally.
And there's talk of other things coming in future releases.
- So wait, this is not an electron firmware.
- So who is doing it?
- I don't know.
This is like an open source project or is this like a--
- It is.
- They can pull up who they are.
I mean, it's posted on the Electronauts forum
and it's getting like near official support.
- Okay.
- But it's not like an X Electron employee or is it,
you know, I was reading about this at one point
and then I don't know how that happened.
'Cause I think somebody has the source code.
I don't know, I'm not knowledgeable enough.
- Okay.
- Someone by the name of Justin Vaylor or Valor.
And he references a team,
so I guess it's more than just him.
Whoever they are, they're doing God's work.
And big ups to them
for breathing fresh life into a 20 year old fucking machine.
- Now if you had their ear,
and you know, there's obviously still working on it,
what would you maybe ask them to add?
- I had some ideas, most of which people
are already asking for on the Electronauts forum.
So I'm just going to echo their thoughts as well.
Individual track lengths would be awesome.
- Yeah.
- Also probability, be very nice.
I don't really, I mean, that would be cool.
And it would bring it up to snuff with the other
Electron devices, but that's not a huge thing to me
right now because I'm kind of sequencing it
with my poly and tracker.
- Yeah.
- So I can do probability via MIDI sequencing that way.
So not a big deal to me, really,
but I would like to see more per track effects.
Like as it stands now, the reverb and the delay
and the compressor, if I recall,
are all global and only work if you're using
the main stereo pair outs.
- Yeah.
- Which I'm not using.
Like I have everything broken down
into individual track outputs and I'm processing it.
- So those are not getting the master effects
and all those are just raw.
- All the electrons on them.
- Which I've always hated.
- Yeah, I've always fucking hated that.
And I don't know, maybe if there's enough room in there
they could add like a per track delay,
which is something that I thought was going to be
in the LXR too and was appealing me,
but it wasn't.
The delay on the LXR2 is also global.
- That sucks.
- Same with the compressor and things like that.
So it's very machine drum-ish in that way.
I would love to see if, you know, even a shitty delay.
You know what I mean?
Like something that could just get really tight
and kind of nasty would per channel or per track,
I should say.
- Right, right.
- Would be cool, but not a big deal.
I'm currently running the individual track outputs
through my own delays and shit like that.
- Yeah.
- Through the modular and pedals,
but, so yeah, I don't know.
The machine drum has a stance.
I'm enjoying it a lot.
I don't feel like there's a whole lot I would ask for
from a new firmware.
- Nice.
- It's just doing what it does.
At the time, I got sick of the machine drum
because I was leaning more towards a modular drum machine,
which is what I've been playing with conceptually
for a couple of years now, which was fun.
- I've got a lot of, I don't know.
- You made some tracks.
- Yeah.
- It was a fun experiment, but like, yeah, now it's just,
it's too much to do.
- It's fun to have it with it.
- To even reproduce a fraction of what the machine drum
can do in a modular would be thousands upon thousands
of dollars.
- Right, yeah.
- Like the machine drum is 16 sounds.
You know what I mean?
- Six. - Sixteen tracks.
Each one with its own filter, you know what I mean?
And like parameters and it's.
- Making another configuration in a modular
is like a fucking nightmare, you know?
Where's the rhythm or machine drum
you can just go to the next pattern in one second.
- Yeah, exactly.
So yeah, I don't know.
I would still do a voice or two,
probably percussion wise in the modular,
but for the most part. - Yeah, that's different though.
Totally. - I'm doing it in the box now, you know?
With the machine drum or any other drum machines
that I get, routing it through the modular
is definitely something that I didn't do before
and really enjoying now.
- Oh, fuck, oh shit.
- It's a blast.
I mean, a machine drum still sounds like shit by itself.
It needs processing. - Right.
- You know what I mean?
It sounds very plastic-y.
- That's not an uncommon,
some of the machine-y. - Drum machine.
- Some like cardboard, you know?
They always have.
And that was part of the charm of it.
- That's not an uncommon drum machine problem though.
I mean, you know. - That one especially,
the God, some of the horrors that I evoked
with that fucking thing in the body situation.
- Yeah, I mean, like comparing the sound engines
to like the Riddemar 2, for example.
- Yeah.
- Fucking different world entirely.
- Totally.
- But yeah, I don't know.
I kind of like the shitty digital machines
for what they are, you know what I mean?
And I can get some interesting sounds out of them,
especially once I start routing it through,
you know, compression and overdrive and, you know,
giving it, you know,
running it through analog processing basically.
- Yeah. - You know,
I would have to add some magic to those shitty digital machines.
- Yeah.
- That's why it's definitely,
you getting one is definitely incited the lust again
because I think I could wield it much more effectively
than I could like 10 years ago or whatever the fuck that was.
- Yeah.
Yeah, now that I'm shifting the modular
to be more processing and not like an all, you know,
encompassing synth voice drum machine and all that,
like, you know, if I just focus it on like processing,
it's definitely shining a bit more for me.
- Yeah, those FM hats are pretty special though.
- Yeah.
- It's just some interesting magic in there.
- Yeah, for sure.
And not even the model cycles can like compete with it,
which it was, it was from what we understand, you know,
was designed to try and emulate some of that, right?
Just doesn't quite hit it, you know.
- Not that I've heard.
- No.
The cycles inspired me too when I had one,
I was like, yeah, I should get a machine drum
again someday 'cause this is like close, you know what I mean?
And it is a cool machine.
I can definitely see one to accommodate my machine drum now.
Right, you know what I mean?
Especially like the unique features of that box,
like the kick and the chord machines stood out for me, you know.
Those would go along with the machine drum pretty nicely, I think.
- Yeah, it'd be a fun live rig that pedals,
you could, you could fuck some shit up.
- All right, so is that it for left, right corner?
- Yeah, I mean, I don't wanna spend too much time
focusing on the machine drum.
You know what I mean?
It's a 20 year old box, you know.
- Right, right.
- You don't know what it does by now.
- We revisited the pass and dug up old artifacts before us.
- But the new OS, definitely loaded on there.
It's risk, it's worth the risk brick in your box, I think,
to just have that much more functionality out of it, you know.
- Fuck yeah, I do it too.
And some of those new voices were pretty chipped to me,
you know what I mean?
That's not what I was trying to do, but just fucking around,
I was like, oh, I've made some interesting
little chipped in stuff.
Again, reminding me of like Mono Machine.
- Right.
- And I was like, okay, this is cool,
'cause I don't think there will ever be a Mono Machine too,
but if the machine drums, which are far more common,
you can get you into slightly Mono Machine territory,
you know what I mean?
That's pretty cool, 'cause like,
again, there's 16 fucking tracks on there, you know.
It's like, you're hardly ever gonna use all those
in one drum patch, you know what I mean?
So you can use other tracks in order to do other things
- Right.
- Those machines, which is cool,
and route them out individually,
and you gotta drum machine and a synth all in one box.
It's pretty cool, and that's where I'm standing on.
- Now, do you wanna have an outro?
So you had this sort of dramatic intro with exposition.
- I wanna say Erika sends me to step it up.
Like, you know, with the LXR,
like, that would have been my go-to drum machine right now.
Had they taken it just a little further, you know?
If you're gonna call something a Mark II,
you gotta do more than just add sliders to it,
in my opinion.
- Agreed. - Yeah.
- There needs to be some significant improvements
to the firmware itself, and I'm hoping they'll come
in the future.
- I mean, the sonic potions is not gonna deliver it.
There's at least now hope that Erika is going to
actually do that.
- Yeah.
- A few of the second one though,
you're missing out on the probability on the substeps.
That's a lot of fun variation there.
- Yeah, yeah, the lack of the microsteps in the substeps.
Like, that was my favorite thing about the Mark I.
- Totally.
- So you're missing on it.
- You can just shut out of that.
- Using it as a sequence.
- Mm-hmm.
- And that's just not there now in the Mark II,
and it's like, okay, you're actually losing some
pretty important features by going to the Mark II,
in my opinion.
- That's what I just realized with the machine drum too,
I could just sequence it from the rhythm now
that it has MIDI out.
- Yeah.
- Use probability there.
- Yep.
- 'Cause if it's got the good MIDI in spec.
- And sequencing it is fucking breeze, man.
Like I hate--
- Oh yeah.
- I hate menu diving, and you know,
on all the electron machines I've always hated
going into that MIDI config page.
You know what I mean?
And like, but with the machine drum,
I forgot how simple it is.
It's like, okay, you're gonna accept clock,
you're gonna accept program change,
you're gonna accept note data, that's a wrap.
You know what I mean?
It was like pretty straightforward,
and I was able to just start sequencing away
with the tracker thought issue.
Basically every track on the machine drum
is associated with a whole note,
starting at C3 and going up.
So you just send it note data,
and you're triggering each machine.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Easy peasy, lemon squeezy.
So I can essentially program every track on there
if I wanted on a single track in the tracker,
by with the note sequences,
it would get a little chaotic, but it could be done.
- You don't have to do it pretty quickly.
- You don't have to at some point,
but like you could do it.
So like, if I wanted to do that live, for example,
I could essentially just have an entire
track on the poly end handling the machine drum,
and all the other tracker channels doing tracker stuff.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah, it'd be cool.
- Hell of a setup.
- Yeah.
- Do you use the control all machines much?
- No.
- Yeah.
- I never did.
And so far I haven't had any reason to again,
because I've never really wanted to perform
with a machine drum,
it's always been a studio tool to me.
And I've never really wanted to sit there
and tweak out on it.
Maybe if I had one of those,
what is it, like the micro command
that was ever called?
- Mini command.
- Mini command, that's it.
Something like that,
to open up that type of shit a little more,
or like a,
what is it, like a fader fox type of interface,
just have some sliders and shit to work with.
And maybe I would care more about them,
but yeah, I've never really messed with those.
- Do you want a half broken BCR 2000?
- No.
- I can't, what do I have to do with that studio?
- Do you want to just have,
I was the US distributor for the mini commands,
I'll let you borrow mine.
- Oh, you have one?
- Yeah.
- I got it.
- I might have two, I'll check.
- Dude, even when you used to use those,
I didn't fully understand what they did.
- I remember you tried to explain to me,
and I was just kind of like,
(mumbles)
- I didn't know, like,
it was like, so good,
'cause I'm an idiot.
What the fuck do they do?
- It's a good question,
'cause on the outside of it,
it's just an Arduino that you can program to do anything,
that he made some hardware that's specific for that,
and he made some libraries
that make it easier to work with the machine drum.
But the thing that was specific that he built into,
it was really about looping with that device,
and making it so you could have it
trigger the RAM machine,
that's what it was, right?
Use the way RAM machine and just have it like,
dude looping,
and you could have it start and stop the loop perfectly-ish.
- What do you think about the looping?
- Like, almost like a doctor track in a way.
So you could use that RAM machine buffer
to loop like the whole output of the machine,
and chop it up. - The mini-plan is
recording audio?
- No, it's sending the MIDI to it in such a way
that it's manipulating the RAM machine,
and he even got Electron to change
some of their MIDI spec to accommodate this at the time,
so that you could trigger those RAM machine
recording on and off-states,
and you could sample from internally within the machine.
- Oh, for the inputs on the machine drum.
- Yeah, interesting.
- Okay.
- Or like, no, just to do like,
it could sample the output.
That's how the RAM machines worked like,
you could have it tap from the output of the device,
and just record what was going on in the output.
- Weird.
Yeah, so like,
- There were the ROM machines and the RAM machines.
The ROM machines where you just put your samples
play back in the RAM machines where you could do the loop.
This just made it easier to work with the RAM machines.
- See, I never fucked with the samples on a much to be given,
which is why I have such limited understanding of them.
- 'Cause it's kind of a pain in the ass,
which is why he made the thing to be like,
"Oh, so I can use this live."
Like, in his use case, I think at the time was,
sample what's going on so I can offload the machine,
kind of like I'd do with that boss 505.
So I can like edit something else and then go back.
- Interesting.
- Oh yeah, and he would persist the RAM machine.
That was the trick.
You could switch patterns on the RAM machine
would still go and be reflected in the next pattern,
'cause you only had one buffer.
So you could loop what you were doing,
go to the next pattern, keep that loop playing,
and then build up sequence too,
which you couldn't do before the mini command.
'Cause it would have been like weird SISX,
and he got some SISX stuff added.
- It's not at all what I thought those did.
I thought they were adding additional MIDI control.
- It does that too.
That was one of the other firmware.
The main one was the looping and the other firmware,
which was just adding control for the delay,
which was super useful,
'cause you could just manipulate the delay parameters
without having a current effects manual.
- Okay.
- So I would use that one a little more.
- 'Cause you had the effects that are kind of buried.
- Yeah, yeah.
And that was just more SISX too,
'cause I don't think there were CCs for the,
I don't know why, for like the delay time.
- I haven't looked into CCs yet,
which is something I need to look into
with, you know, to really utilize the tracker
to sequence it more.
I did with the model sample,
or I'm sorry, the model cycles,
I was sending that thing both MIDI data
and CC data from the tracker to that,
and it worked out really well.
It was pretty cool.
- Yeah.
- Haven't even got that far with the machine draw though.
- I don't even know if it's far from here.
- That firmware added the CC shit, I think.
- Okay.
- That X.04, 'cause before that,
I think it was mostly SISX.
- No, that's fine.
- That was the main thing of the mini command,
was like SISX translation to CC, or vice versa.
- Interesting.
- That was one other thing it would do.
And this is a long time ago, so I barely remember it,
but I still have the big box in my basement
that like all that shit came in.
- Yeah, I knew you had involvement with it.
And I remember you explained to me back in the day
when you still had a machine draw,
what they did, and that one was,
and I think they worked for the Mono machine too.
- Yeah, they eventually, someone--
- I remember, I think that's what we were talking about
in the first place.
- Someone took it over now,
they have like a super version of it,
which uses like hardware you can actually find
and does more stuff.
I think it actually may be,
he might have even done his own
turbomitty implementation too.
He was one of the few,
'cause you can't get those,
apparently super rare now.
- I don't have it, the guy that I bought,
the machine drum from did not include it.
- Yeah.
- So I don't think I'll be trying to upload
any custom samples to mine any time.
- Any time sample without it.
- I definitely did it before I had one,
but it took like a half an hour
to send like two mags of data to it or something.
- Yeah, I don't have the patience for that.
And again, I haven't really fucked with samples
much on the machine drum itself.
The magic for me is the synthesis on that thing.
- Yeah, with the machine drum, I agree.
If I need samples in the drum machine,
I have my thras or I would just buy like a model sample
or something, - Yeah.
- Pair it with the machine drum, probably.
- I totally agree with that.
- Even that RAM machine stuff was kind of flaky,
like the looping or it would click
and it was just like, it wasn't the jam.
The Octrotract did it better, but not really.
- You're gonna be getting one, aren't you?
- Oh yeah, you're gonna be doing it.
- I don't even wanna see you.
(laughing)
I just, I don't wanna be around it.
- I will at some point be like,
just let me use it for a couple of minutes
to see if it's gonna go.
- It's charming, man.
I still like the interface on it.
- I spent so much time with one of those.
- I know you did.
- Like a lot of time.
It was all I used for a lot.
- I'm still surprised you don't have one.
You know what I mean?
I mean, you got the rhythm and shit and you have for a while,
but yeah, like when I think
of a machine drum or Octrotrack or even an MPC,
like you pop up in my head like a medium.
- I don't have a medium.
- Yeah, I mean like.
- No, if they weren't like, it's just crazy.
I've been looking at the prices on Reaver.
- Yeah, it's a little insane.
- You got a good deal for sure.
- Yeah.
- That was a lengthy electron corner.
- It was?
- No, it was, it was fantastic.
And it was generally positive.
This was not our normal corner.
- Well, you can quiet for a while Dave.
Why don't you take the mic?
- I mean, I got nothing.
I have no specific corner.
This is just me in the middle of the room,
maybe sitting on a stool.
- Maybe you need an Erica corner.
You've got maybe the most Erica gear.
- It could be an Erica.
And I'm a stand for Erica.
Like I, you're a fan of all the stuff they have.
They've done.
This is weirdly like, depending on where you are,
really exciting or really boring.
The Matrix mixer.
Him just popped out of nowhere.
And within like an hour of like looking at reading
what it did, there's one video out there.
So this is exactly what I need.
Or did it right there.
- That's literally what it's called, right?
Like the Erica Matrix mixer.
- Yep. - Doesn't have a fancy name.
- Oh no.
- Had no hype.
It just appeared.
- Zero hype. - It dropped.
- Absolutely just out of the blue,
ninja release.
And it was weird too, it was around the time
of the LXR2 hype.
So they were like, I don't know if it came out before
or was gonna come out.
But like the videos for the LXR2 and like already come out
there was like basically like excitement for that.
And then, which I was like, yeah, that's cool.
But like I just be lined over to the weird little Matrix mixer
thing that they did.
So it's a 16 by 16 grid of 16 in 16 outs.
The back has dedicated quarter inch stereo out pair
and dedicated quarter inch stereo in
that are normal to the first two ins and the first two outs.
So if you, you know, basically to plug those in,
they were right up with Sarah.
And it's really simple to set up.
You've, you just have two knobs,
one for scrolling left to right.
The other one scrolls up and down.
One, and they're both you push in.
The one you push, it just turns it on and off binary.
The other one is an attenuator.
And it's got multiple levels of attenuation
and you cycle through them.
- So this is exactly like their pin matrix on the centrix.
- That is exactly what it is.
It even says in the manual that was like,
this was both influenced by and because of the work
they had done with that.
You can save a number of presets,
bounce between them real easily.
There's like random and you've got control over what random,
like what random does.
It solves a shitload of problems.
You can, I mean, again, it's, your rack is modular.
So like you can have ins, be audio rate, modulation rate,
you know, hitting random and just having the whole thing
just sort of reconstitute itself
and make these new connections.
- Yeah. - Absolutely a blast.
- Yeah, you can like set the square
that you wanna have randomized.
- Yeah, that's cool. - It's not just cool
and it's just a matrix so you can be like,
just give me the top four.
- Yeah, it's kind of like a big daddy version
of the WMD.
- Shit, what's it called?
- Sequential switch. - Yes.
- Oh, yeah. - Matrix.
- SSM, yeah, sequential switch matrix.
- Yeah, that guy. - Yeah.
So essentially like that is much bigger.
- Yeah, you can, 'cause you get those presets
and you can program change through the MIDI program change
which is pretty cool.
And you get like the whole grid of presets
which is almost too much.
And it's DC coupled and buffered.
So like you can, I love it just for like,
volt proactive, put it in there.
And it's so easy to like, even,
I like when I go back to use it, it's not confusing.
I'm like, oh yeah, you're the volt proactive
and you go out of H and you're going there.
So it's like really easy to like get familiar with it again.
It's not like a big mess.
- Cool.
- Oh, and yeah, and one thing I didn't mention
about the rhythm, I've got the quarter inch out
on the back just going to the rhythm CV input
which is fucking awesome.
- Oh, I was like just take any modulator from the modular
send it to the rhythm.
- Forgot it has CV and--
- Yeah, which is huge.
Gets around the second LFO thing.
It makes it a little nicer.
At least you've got like two other things
you can send to stuff for sound design which is tight.
- Yeah, but now it's like, you know,
sort of like the central mixer for all of my stuff.
Now it's just kind of sitting in the middle there.
And I mean, the obvious being able to write route
for feedback looping.
- Yeah, that was not the one next question.
- Yeah, it's, yeah.
- I'd like to hear a little bit about that.
- I mean, it's perfect for that.
I mean, you have the four levels of attenuation
so you can sort of, you can't dial it in exactly
what you want from the attenuation,
but I mean, you still have pretty good control over it.
- That's what concerned me because I mean,
feedback patching, mixing I should say,
really sensitive, you know what I mean?
Like you gotta feel that out and I didn't see
if you would be able to dial in carefully enough
to do proper feedback patching on there.
- Yeah, you're saying it's enough?
- It's, see, our version of proper might be different
'cause for me, I've had--
- Just being able to like fine tune it, you know what I mean?
Like some feedback, you know, it's so touchy.
Sometimes just a hair to the right is,
oh, too much is going off the rim.
- It begs for a bank of input attenuators
'cause that solves it all.
And in some ways like with the size of the box,
I guess they might have been afraid
to make it more expensive.
- Sure.
- Or like it's buffered and they don't want to have people
like, you know, have that fuck up the buffering circuit at all.
I don't know if that's the case or not, but yeah,
it kind of begs for like input attenuation.
Gotcha, okay.
For feedback purposes.
- But it hasn't really, I've had pretty good success
with the feedback the way it is now.
- Fuck yeah.
- Also having random and then making those connections
that I didn't necessarily think of right away.
And now I'm like, oh, that was a good idea.
Thanks, machine.
- I'd love to like I'd seem like I use it in chunks.
Like these first four will just be like fancy buffered molds
basically.
And then the next like four will be feedback shit.
And then two more for the rhythm.
They're kind of always at like one, two,
just to use those quarter inch outputs.
So it's kinda, I like how you can do like different shit
with it very easily.
- I'm tempted to check one out.
- Yeah.
- I didn't even know it was out yet.
And you guys already had them on pre-work.
I was like, damn.
Okay.
I need to look into this more.
- Seven out of chance.
- Yeah, we both latched on to that announcement.
It was the LXR2 came out
and we both saw the Matrix mix.
- Ah, fuck.
- Yeah, it just solves a lot of problems.
And I think they executed it almost flawlessly.
- Yeah.
- Oh, and the other thing too is I used it for video
and it works perfectly fine.
- Yeah, I was really excited about being able to take
someone like, you know, I don't have four prismatic rays.
I don't have, you know, like it's one of those things
where like I have a pretty small set of video modules
and being able to take that and kind of like,
okay, now you're being routed here.
You're now being copied again and routed out
as a different colorizer.
But now it, that version of the colorizer
is gonna then be mixed with this LFO
or that's now going to the staircase
and having like these were routing options
that I could have with, you know,
a bunch of cables and a bunch of attenuators
and a bunch of molds.
- Yeah.
- Recreated that, but it would have taken forever.
This now and also it limits the experimenting
that you can do with it.
'Cause you're like, okay, I spent an hour
and I set all this up.
Well, it didn't work.
Shit.
Now having all of these sitting in there
and just kind of like mapping them out
and making those connections in the Matrix mixer
allow for just so much more faster experimenting.
So yeah, for video artists out there that are listening,
I recommend if you just, you want it for that.
- Yeah, and it doesn't give a fuck about the volt difference.
- Not even a volt.
- It's just to send what you send in out.
- Exactly.
- Yep.
- I like that they made it kind of simple.
'Cause I've had a few other, like the maze I had
from livestock electronics and sold that on
'cause it was just too much of a head fuck to use.
I had some cool features.
And then like we were, the WMD SSM
has always been interesting.
- I don't think I'd, I don't think I want to take
the Matrix mixer out.
I think it is for just at home.
- Yeah.
- I don't know how well it would really work live.
- That's the stuff that folks in my head
when they even suggest like,
oh, you could build like a whole performance
so that you have this one patch
that you're just mutating with the Matrix mixer.
- I don't know if that sounds like a good time to me.
It just kind of does my head in.
I don't know maybe other people are different I'm sure,
but I don't want to try to make that work.
I don't want to be limited in that way.
Give it up a lot of decisions at that point
that I don't really want to when I'm making stuff.
- If anyone's listening in,
- You put your eye and you're on the fence.
I see you jump over the fence.
- Yeah.
- It's ridiculous.
Love it.
- Was anything else for electron?
I mean, I'm sorry, for Erica,
what were we calling this?
- The Erica corner.
- Maybe we have a corner.
I mean, there's other areas.
- Erica breakfast, Erica.
- Erica breakfast, Nook.
I love it.
That's all I have for the Erica breakfast, Nook.
- Yeah, Sam.
- You don't have too much else.
Those are my two main things.
- I had the trip take on my list.
That's the only thing else.
I can dip into that a bit.
- Yeah.
- Absolutely not.
- Okay.
- All right, fine.
- All right.
- Trip, trip ticket.
- The SSF trip tick.
We mentioned--
- That's a reference to like the AAA trip tick, right?
- What?
- Trip ticks.
- It's not a reference to that.
- It's definitely a reference.
- Tigertron live from the garden.
- What?
Like the trip to RTJ live from the garden?
- No, something in like--
- The panel artwork.
- Like the thing like AAA would do
where you would say like,
I want to go from here to here.
This is the days before, you know, navigation
and your Tom-Tom's and your map quests and what have you.
And you would get a trip tick.
And it would tell you, you know, where to go
and how to get there.
- Sure they did grandma.
(laughing)
- Is it when you'd go on a trip
and if you didn't do it enough time
they would put ticks on you and give you Lyme disease?
- So I even looked it up.
- Uh-huh.
- And AAA, the first thing you AAA from their own website,
why AAA trip tick is the ultimate road trip planner.
- Well I'll be damned.
- That's what it does.
- This man speak of the true, true.
- Neither of you have A, you didn't believe me.
Why would I make that up?
And B, you've never, you didn't have a trip tick.
You didn't travel via?
- Never, I've never heard of such a thing.
- You haven't even heard of this?
- No.
He's right, of course.
- Wow.
- A trip tick.
- Yeah.
- And that's what, I assume that's what this model's
named after.
- Maybe it is.
- So that's super important that we get the answer
of that before we move forward, but I would say
maybe we could move forward.
- I thought it was a playoff of like the fact
that it's three major circuits
and it was also a collaboration of three people.
As we've discussed in past, it was steady state fate
in collaboration with Derek Basic and Boyz Noise.
- That's three.
- So that's three, that's trio.
So I'm thinking trip is short for like triple.
- The tri.
- Tri.
- Three.
- Yes.
- Triangle, three ankles.
- Right.
- Yeah.
- And the masons.
- We'll tell you where to go.
- Are controlling the water supply.
So the tick is what happens when your brain goes
from all the chemicals in the water and the chemtrails
and you start to get the twitches.
It's a trip tick.
See it's black and white Dave.
You just gotta read between the lines.
It's all there.
- I can't believe they're putting it out there like that.
'Cause normally the free masons are a little bit more.
- Hiding in plain sight.
- A little cageier than that.
Yeah, that's too obvious.
This is like an even shittier Dan Brown short story
'cause what we had before.
- While he was tripping too.
What was I talking about?
- Yeah, that's it.
- Yeah.
- Previous episode mentioned it was a little pricey.
Didn't seem all that appealing to me.
But I got one.
- But wait, here we are.
- Here we are.
- I can't believe it.
This never happened before on the show.
- It never worked that way.
- Never happened where we should on something
and then later bought it and loved it.
- It's very unusual.
- I wouldn't say I love it.
- Oh.
- I like it.
It feels a gap in my modular now that I've trimmed it down.
'Cause like I said, it's essentially three circuits, right?
You got your filter, you got your distortion circuit
and you got your delay slash comb circuit.
Right, like individually, I would say the three of them
are not that great.
And then of course you got your high gain input VCA
and high gain output VCA.
- Right, okay.
- To wrap it all up into a nice package.
But individually I'm not too impressed
by any of the three circuits,
but together they sort of form like a cohesive flavor
of audio destruction that is kind of unique
and I'm kind of enjoying.
- Do you get the impression that this was designed that way
that maybe not intended to be used individually?
- I do, I get that vibe.
I mean, that's the thing.
Like it is a little expensive, you know, it's $400.
Some people might look at that and be like,
"Well, you know, I'm getting like three modules
and one out of it.
I'm, you know, I'm getting a filter.
I'm getting a BBD delay slash chorus slash comb
and you know, I'm getting a multi-mode distortion.
But like, you're not gonna really,
at least I'm not gonna be routing into each of those things
to try and get like, I don't know,
use out of each circuit individually.
You know what I mean?
It's like it's kind of like an all-in-one approach.
Like they all work hand in hand nicely
once you fine tune it.
- And what kind of control do you have over that fine tuning?
- Yeah.
- You get a decent amount of control.
Not as much control as you would if you were to like
just buy separate modules to do those things,
which is kind of like, that was my initial thought too.
It was like, you know, I already know what delays,
you know, module I want after or pre-distortion.
I already know what distortion modules I have or want.
I already know what filters I wanna use
in that destructive manner.
You know what I mean?
But like, I don't know, if you're trying to go
for a more compact approach, like I am now
having separate modules to do all those things
to just fuck up audio.
- Be a lot.
- Sounds like a dark matter situation in a way.
- It's like all these things I'm--
- Things I'm-- - individually or not
especially in any way.
- Exactly, exactly.
- But here they are.
- That's kind of what I hated about the dark matter too.
It was like, well, I can already do this with,
you know, XYZ modules that I have.
Now that I have smaller rig,
I'm starting to see the appeal of these more,
you know, all in one solution, as I should say.
And that's definitely what it's going for, you know.
It's meant to be used with all of them together.
And you can change internally how they're routed
with a push of a button, which is nice.
- It's cool.
- Like, do you want to filter pre-distortion or post?
You know, do you want the comb filter pre
or post-distortion?
- Is there any feedback options or is it--
- There is feedback for the BBD circuit, like, regen,
basically.
- So you can crank that up, and that's essentially like
feedbacking, you know what I mean?
But there is no internal like feedback loop routing
or anything like that.
You have to do that externally.
But yeah, I mean, it's definitely a destruction module
through and through.
I'm enjoying it.
It allows like creative sculpting in like a pretty
industrial way, you know, which I dig.
- Yeah.
Do you have a wide variety of tones and like,
one of the problems sometimes you get with like
something like that is,
well, it does this and that's it.
- That's kind of it.
I mean, you have a good amount of control.
I feel like even though the distortion has two different modes,
it still sounds similar overall.
You know what I mean?
You're not getting a lot of different flavors
of distortion out of it.
In fact, overall, I think the flavor and the tone
is kind of muddy in a way that I don't like too much.
But I'm also very fucking particular and picky
when it comes to distortion and over driving.
- Which we've talked about a lot.
- Yes.
- So maybe it's the bee's knees for somebody.
For me, I feel like the distortion leaves a little bit
to be desired and I'm kind of using it in conjunction
with some of my own personal distortions.
But it does help add a little extra grit, you know what I mean?
- Oh, is yours still using it?
- The distortion circuit itself.
- Yeah.
- At mild settings.
- Oh my god.
- Just to add a little bit of extra grit
on what I'm routing through it.
Mainly I just like using it in a modulating the shit out of it.
You know what I mean?
Kind of fucking up audio that way.
Like on drums, I feel like it might be a little too muddy.
I want to pre-filter before I route through it
to actually get a little more surgical
because it just kind of like, I don't know,
the mid-range seems to get like really fucking muddy
very quickly.
And it's kind of like, if you're going to try to run
more than like a single drum through it at once,
it's going to slop up your mix a bit too much.
Synth lines, bass lines, acid going through it,
a little more enjoyable I think than drums.
Yeah, this wouldn't be my go-to for drum distortion really.
Which is unfortunate because that's what I wanted it for.
- Right.
I almost, because of how muddy and like one flavor
the saturation distortion is, I kind of find myself
splitting my path and using that as like,
and you know, almost in like parallel processing
with another, either a clean signal
or like something else that's being processed differently
along with it.
- Yeah.
- Going through it 100%, you know, and only that,
it's just, I don't know, doesn't please my ears.
Yeah.
- So it sounds like you have a real mixed feelings about this.
- Yeah, I mean, like I said, I dig it,
I could even see having a second one,
but it's, I feel like it's very specific.
What I want to get out of it, you know what I mean?
Or can get out of it, as opposed to being like,
a very versatile fuck shit up module.
Like, even the BBD delay circuit
it has two different timings, but there's still,
it's still very limited, even with the two different modes.
It doesn't get as long as I would like to see.
I would love to see it being able to like,
push it into longer, almost like,
glitched out time frames.
- Gotcha, yeah.
- For example, like the old flight of harmony
sound shadows delay comes the mind.
Like, like you were able to push that one far
into like beyond what the chip was supposed to do.
You know, and it would get noisy
and it was good for destruction purposes.
And glitchy stuff.
And you could even push it further with CV, you know?
And I would like to be able to do that with this,
but it's still, even on the longer mode,
it's still pretty short, in my opinion.
It's better for like tight, almost car plus strong,
slash, corsy, flanger effects.
But even in that regard, it's mono, you know what I mean?
So you're not gonna get like,
you're not gonna use this as a chorus module.
- Right, that's for sure.
- But at faster modulations,
it's a nice touch to like help fuck up audio, you know?
- Mm-hmm.
- Destructively.
The description says that the clock of the delay circuit
can be voltage controlled.
I have yet to see how that's possible.
I didn't read the manual, mind you.
- So wait, is that like the CPU clock?
Like this, like this EDSP?
- Like this EDSP.
- Like this EDSP?
- Yeah.
- Or like what else?
Like a chronoblob.
- Oh, right, yeah.
- You know where you can like actually block the delay time.
I don't see any input for that,
unless you utilize a different input
that's labeled as something else to do that.
I have not seen that.
Maybe that just means being able to CV the switch
between high and low timing.
That's, yeah, I don't know.
- Now that you look to see if there's a manual?
- There is.
I saw the link there for them.
But I did not click it there.
- What?
(laughing)
- I would rather just, you know.
- Wow.
- Take a guess and feel it out.
Yeah, I mean, overall I think triptych has grown on me a bit
and I am enjoying it.
And the level's like really fast and easy dialing in
of specific flavored audio destruction.
You know, it combines a lot of the elements
that I already over time patched together
to get destructive results.
You know what I mean?
Like the tight delay of filter that's capable,
squeaking and nice distortion and out.
A nice over-saturated VCA, you know,
all that stuff, it's all there.
So, but it doesn't matter like personal preference,
I guess if you can handle the the muddiness of it.
I would have liked to have seen them use better op amps,
I would say.
- Right.
- Or different flavors of that distortion.
Like that circuit, you know,
it switches between those two modes.
We, which is what like one is,
it seems to be like soft clipping or like the wave folding
which it wasn't described as wave folding,
but I remember what I recall it's similar to that.
- It's already a pretty expensive module.
- Yeah. - Like that's,
- I was reading, there's some dope for like older,
octal VCA, it's like 4-H-P or something like that,
but you can apparently like swap the chips out
with almost like any VCA chip you want.
There's like an offset trim around the back,
but you can like make them distort by default more or less
than others. - Nice.
- Still about the other day and like I couldn't,
I didn't see one, but I piqued my interest.
It'd be kind of cool to have something a little more flexible,
like try different op amps, like fuck around.
- You did that on my old dope for a 1-9,
a 1-19 V envelope generator. - Oh, very good.
- Yeah, I swapped out the chips on that,
give it more headroom and a nicer crunch.
That's, yeah, I fucking hate muddy amps.
- Yeah, I do judge me. - Muddy delays.
This one is pretty muddy and the distortion itself doesn't get,
doesn't have that like metallic crunch
that I love to get out of something labeled as a distortion.
- So you were looking at some analog voices.
- I was. - Yeah.
- That 810 is definitely thumbs up.
- Yeah. - System 8810.
- Yeah, I was looking into that
and I was looking into Atlantis again.
- Oh, you're great.
- So why is that?
'Cause we've talked in the past about maybe being done
or like kind of over analog and its limitations.
So what is it that is changed in your mind?
What's brought you back into it?
- Not necessarily that it's analog.
It's just I wanted like an all in one voice solution.
'Cause I'm lazy lately.
I don't really wanna go through the meticulous process
of patching up a basic synth voice every time.
And I don't have any all in one voice modules at the moment
or even any desktop synths really,
except for like my acid box and things like that.
Kind of, I don't know, I've been playing a lot with bass
stuff lately and I just kind of wanted like a nice,
not 303-ish, but like a good like kind of grimy,
techno-y bass type of machine or synth voice.
- And in the past, you've sort of stayed away from modules
that were all in one voice.
You didn't really typically have that.
- 'Cause I always felt they're too limited
and I was like, what's the point?
- Modular. - Right.
- Patch up your own, but now like,
now that I'm feeling creative and I've downsized
my stuff a bit, it's more appealing to me.
'Cause I wanna dial in what I'm trying to achieve faster
and take up less space in my rig
because now I have two cases instead of three.
So now I see the appeal of them more, you know?
Whereas before they were kind of like,
I just didn't really see it, you know?
- I think you might have been like me
where I was like so wave table focused for so long.
And now that I'm doing like more bass stuff
with the modular and like thicker sounds,
I'm really appreciating like, oh, analog oscillators
are fucking great for that.
- Sometimes there's beauty and simplicity, you know?
And when it comes to bass, sometimes less is,
more, you know what I mean?
You just want it to sound
basic and solid.
You don't need a lot of bells and whistles
when it comes to bass lines stuff.
So yeah, definitely.
Whereas the digital stuff can get pretty crazy,
pretty quickly, sometimes it's too much,
it's not ideal unless you're making like some sort of like
really techy bass dubstep type of shit, you know what I mean?
- You're like, I was using the neutron orgone last night,
which I like, oh man, it's awesome,
but it can't really do bass very well.
And I have the first one and there's maybe some technical
reason why that is, but I was getting some good high end,
but I couldn't get a bass out of it.
And then I'd swap some stuff around
and I put the Pittsburgh voltage lab back in
'cause I, that's one thing it does very well.
And I was like, okay, yeah, like that oscillator circuit
is great for that.
So I've just been enjoying my analog oscillators a lot.
- Yeah, I've been watching a lot of videos.
And it's like, you know, especially the analog solutions,
the lip-zig version three just came out.
And last time I was up in Toronto in Mug audio,
I was playing with the previous version of that
and I almost walked out with it.
You know what I mean?
I was really into it.
It just has like almost like an MS20,
you know, type of distortion, like vibe to it.
You know, it just sounds good and grimy and kind of,
I don't wanna say the word lo-fi,
but it's definitely not lo-fi,
like it sounds fucking quality,
but it also sounds just kind of...
- It's not dirty.
- It's not really produced. - Yeah, yeah.
It has a little bit of spice on it, you know?
It's got a distinct flavor.
And I feel like most of his stuff does, you know what I mean?
But a lot of it is too much for me,
both price-wise and machine-wise,
but the lip-zig just looks kind of like
just what I would want out of like a bass synth, you know?
Is that standalone?
That's not a model right, yeah.
- Yeah, it's standalone.
It's got its own sequencer.
- Oh shit.
- Yeah, it's like only eight step, I think,
but you can do some nifty stuff with it.
- So are you thinking about getting it
or are you just looking at it with--
- I'm just window shopping right now with, you know.
- So short of that then,
what would be something you would be inclined
to actually maybe pursue?
- Something probably half the price.
Like an Atlantis, for example.
- Yeah, you could see that.
- Yeah.
And I wish they didn't go so high in prices,
but I really missed my 101.
- Oh yeah.
- I wish I had a 101 right now.
So like, I would take whatever is as close to that
as possible, I guess, and still fun.
Like, I had the SH01A, which was cool,
but I don't know, it was so tiny and I just didn't--
- Yeah, very small.
- I'm just jiving with it really.
I want something that, I don't know,
I just want something a little more than that.
- Yeah.
- And I can see that.
- Something you could like really beat someone to death with.
Like a weapon, like Greg in the library with the 101.
That's how that game of clue ends.
- Yes.
- So Nick, you were talking about the system 80 voice.
- Oh yeah.
- Have you put that back in 'cause it--
- It's always been in.
- I didn't know I got, I have the Mark II of the 860,
which is the Jove filter, what that's called now on the way.
And so I was like, just refocused on that this weekend,
playing the 810 'cause I was like,
"Go to, I really need this around.
"Could I downsize?
"Could I swap something out?"
And I would only do that, I think,
if you could still get the oscillator that they sell.
'Cause the VCA on it is like great, it's a VCA.
It's not the most attractive part to me.
It does like two in mixing, but that's not like essential.
But the oscillator sounds fucking great.
And I like all the stuff that I've ever recorded with it.
So it's kind of a keeper,
and I wouldn't be mad at having like two of those filters
around too.
Even though the 810, like I said on a previous episode,
it's just low pass only.
And I really was missing the high pass of the Jupiter too.
So yeah, I'm psyched for that.
But yeah, both of them, I've got spot right now,
so I can just slide it next to it.
And then the voltage lab is to the left of both of those two.
So it should be super nice analog row.
At the bottom of the manthes.
- Well, yeah, I'm pretty psyched for it.
- As of right now, I don't have any analog oscillators.
- Oh, no shit.
Yeah, everything's digital.
- I don't either.
I think that might be why I'm kind of leaning towards one now,
finally.
And I kind of like the fact that if I had the Atlantis,
I could also enhance it with routing and digital into it.
- Yeah. - You know what I mean?
To give it a little extra flavor.
- I had that Atlantis a while back,
but at the time, I just didn't have the need for it.
And it felt like too big and too expensive.
Yeah, it was a very brief period.
It was when I was trying to find
a replacement to the 101.
And it just wasn't there for me.
- Yeah. - You know what I mean?
But now, especially with how much 101 costs,
I think it's acceptable.
I would make do with it.
- And did they do a Mark II of that?
- Did they just change the panel, I guess?
- Yeah, they just updated the panel.
And what I know, I don't think anything circuit wise
has been updated with it since it's released.
And I think it's gone up in price as well over time.
I think it's about 650 now, something like that.
- Is that new or is that just like, do at least,
I mean at least it's looking. - No, that's new.
Okay. - Can't find it used right now
because of the new Mylar Melodies episode
that just came out showing off the metropolis with it.
Now, all of a sudden you can't get him a travel explorer
in Atlantis, they're just gone.
- Shock. - Yeah.
But that was a good video.
I think in the last episode, or maybe it was the one before
that we did, I mentioned that he just kind of shills now
more than he used to, but this was like Mylar's return
to form, you know what I mean?
Doing what I think he does best, and that's just jamming
on IntelliJel Gear, making neat little techno acid jams.
You know what I mean? - Yeah.
- Which is essentially all that video was.
You know what I mean?
I mean, there was definitely a technical overview element
of it, he explained some things and that was cool,
but mainly it was just him while on out,
making some decent modular acid, and showing off
what he could do, and it was like cool.
Like that was, I think how most people came to know him
in the first place was the original metropolis video.
You know what I mean?
That was solid, so this was a good sequel to that.
Megranity was strongly shilling for IntelliJel
at the same time, who can blame him.
They gave him a free metropolis, so whatever.
- Yeah, that's hard to argue with.
The last time the last year when there was a chip shortage
that affected the 810, they were like,
I don't know if I'm gonna do this module again.
They were just gonna focus on the Jove, and that was it.
So who knows if they're gonna produce it,
but yeah, I couldn't find any,
or even see any recent sold listings.
- Yeah, I think that's common with almost everything
right now, like anything that I was like,
oh, maybe I'll buy one, I go to look for it,
and it's just gone.
- Yeah, just nothing to be fun.
- This chip shortage is no joke.
We were talking to Russ from Eveton Technologies
over the weekend, and he was having trouble sourcing stuff
even for his range of stuff.
- It was interesting to hear his take on it.
- Yeah, I mean, from someone in the industry,
shed a lot of light on things I wasn't aware of.
You know what I mean?
- Yeah.
- It doesn't seem like it's gonna be over anytime soon.
(laughing)
- Yeah, no.
He was even having trouble talking about
even doing like replacements, or like,
changing the design, doing something different.
Like that wasn't even necessarily going to solve the problem.
- You did mention possibly like a new Renaissance
for older school gear, and like desktop boxes
that made a lot easier than using the super, super tiny
components that most things rely on today.
- Yeah, using those big chips that are actually still
available, and maybe coming at them with a different idea,
or coming with a different view,
taking them on slightly differently.
I hope he's not the only person who has that idea,
and even if it ends up being like a bigger box
because those parts and all of their,
everything to design around them,
is going to take up a lot more space,
but if it's that or literally nothing,
because the super small stuff just can't be done.
- Yeah.
- I'd rather have something going on.
- Yeah, so Intellio had to rev the Rainmaker
just because, so they could get a different graphics chip
for the little display, and so they had to redo it
just to accommodate for that,
just so they could keep making them interesting.
And the, I want this thing, I'm not gonna get it,
just because, but the fake devil fish from Barringer,
that's been pushed out maybe until 2022 now.
- Oh no, sure.
- I saw, 'cause it was like coming soon, coming soon.
- Yeah.
- And I just saw something where somebody says
one of the parts was maybe harder to get now.
- That's the thing with Barringer,
like they've made so many fucking announcements
over the last couple years,
and like almost none of them have seen the light of day,
like we're still waiting for the ARP 2600,
or the barps, I should say.
- Other companies, I mean, they're dealing with the shortage,
or at least some kind of plan,
'cause look at like Erika announced the LXR2,
and the Matrix mixer, and they both came out.
- With the announcement pretty much, yeah.
They announced it, and then like days later,
you were able to buy it.
- Right, and so Barringer's just doing the opposite.
- Yeah.
- Here's a million things that we'll never actually do.
- And I kinda hate that, 'cause if there's something
that I, if the marketing works, and I end up wanting it,
like it's not something, you know,
I wanna act on that impulse, and impulse buy, right then.
- That's not like, I hate having to, you know,
I don't know, wait, 'cause by then my interest will wane,
and just whatever.
- Yeah, yeah.
(upbeat music)